>> Richard Feldman: Now we're going
to get into some actual file IO.
So up to this point, we've only been
working with strings, but of course,
in order for our static web server to
actually work, we need to be reading these
index dot HTML files off of the disk in
order to send them back to the browser.
So the browser can do all of its work
rendering them and making them look nice.
So we're gonna start by looking
at how to open a file, and
then how to get the size of the file,
which is going to be important later.
And also reading the contents of the file,
of course, something we want to do.
And then finally, we're going
to talk a little bit about
the stack versus the heap.
And in this section, we're gonna see
an alternative that we could have used
to stomping all over the request
that we saw earlier, okay.
So just to recap what we did so far,
we talked about if we got
an incoming request of get /blog.
We wanna translate that into the file
path of a blog / index.html with or
without a slash on the end.
Either case, we handle that in our
sort of little cheap unit test, and
the exercise is verified
that this is all good.
Let's suppose that our
path is example.txt.
If we wanna open that file for reading,
which is what we're gonna do
in our static web server.
We don't care about writing files at all.
This is how we would do that.
So there's two pieces to note here.
So first we're saying we're
calling this function named open.
We're passing in the path and we're
giving it this flag that says Read only.
This is just a constant that's available
for the standard library that basically
says, I want to open this
file in read-only mode.
Other options include, I can say, like,
I want to allow writes but not reads.
Or you can say,
I want to allow both for our purposes.
This is just like a little, nice,
little safety measure that we make sure
we don't accidentally write to this file,
because we really only want
to be reading from these.
The path again, this is a memory address.
So as we know, this is an integer
that's being passed open, and
this also is another integer [LAUGH].
So this flag of whether it's read only or
rewrite, etc,
is just a constant that's an integer.
Now open returns an int,
which is known as a file descriptor.
Now as we're gonna see in a moment,
the file descriptor can also be used to do
things like reading things from the file
or getting the size of the file.
It's basically, a way to avoid having
to pass in this path every single time.
The operating system has this concept
of like, okay, I've opened this file.
I've sort of made a little in-memory
database of like, yes, this file,
this ID, this integer ID, which we
call file descriptor or FD for short.
This corresponds to a particular
like index into that table.
And that table just refers to like
the actual paths and it actually does like
I-nodes and stuff on disk, but
conceptually you can think of it as a way
to just not have to keep passing this path
around, and okay, this file is now open.
And basically,
because there are limited number of these,
as we talked about previously, there's
like about 4 billion possible ones in int.
But actually the operating system
will generally restrict you to a much
lower number, but you can increase that
limit if you want by running some program.
The other thing you have to note, is that
it's very important to remember to close
your file descriptors when you're done.
If you don't, you can have what's
called a file descriptor leak,
which can have essentially the,
well, some bad symptoms, but
they're similar to
the symptoms of a memory leak.
So open it, get your file descriptor,
do things with the file descriptor, and
then once you're done and you're, I don't
want to do any more stuff with this file,
you want to make sure and close it.
So first thing to note about handling
errors in C is that it is super common
to have a C function that returns
either a normal looking number.
So in this case, a file descriptor of,
0, 1, 2, 3, 4, whatever, or -1.
And -1 is just something you're just
supposed to know means an error occurred.
So you don't get any help with this.
C doesn't say, hey,
did you forget to check for the error?
It also doesn't do any automatic
propagation try, catch, no.
It's just like you run open,
it does its thing, and
it gives you back a file descriptor.
And if that file descriptor happens to
be -1, then you're supposed to know,
hey, I should check for that and
see if there was an error.
So for example, if the path is not found,
open will return -1.
There is a separate function you
can call that will get additional
error information.
We're not gonna talk about that yet,
we'll get into that later.
But basically,
this is a really important thing to
know about calling functions in C.
Whenever you're reading
the documentation for
any C function, you always wanna check
the return value and make sure that
you understand what are the special return
values that mean an error occurred.
And I shouldn't trust
the output that it gave me.
Cuz it's not gonna throw an exception,
it's just gonna silently
give you an invalid number.
Okay, so the other thing that you
need to do once you've opened it,
is you need to actually do
something useful with it,
just opening it on its own doesn't
actually cause anything to be read.
Or any metadata to come off of it.
So in this case,
we wanna actually like read from the file.
Here's how we're to do that.
We're gonna call this function called
read and read takes a file descriptor,
again an integer.
It takes a buffer and buffer is,
this is our like bracket array syntax.
So you may recall this just like
everything else returns a memory address.
So if we'd said char star that would
also give us a memory address.
The reason that we're doing this bracket
100 is basically this means, hey,
in the same way that when we had,
like, open bracket, close bracket.
And we set it equal to be a string
bracket, 100 basically says,
I want you to reserve space for 100 bytes.
And they're bytes because it's char, if I
said int, it would be reserved space for
100 ints.
And because I didn't put an equals here,
I just put a semicolon,
I'm basically saying.
Yeah, don't initialize
that memory to anything.
So if it was a string,
it would say, like, okay,
initialize the memory to these bytes,
the bytes that I wrote in the string.
This is an array.
So I could have also said, initialize
these to be all zeros, or all ones, or
something like that.
But what we're doing here is,
I'm saying don't initialize it.
Don't initialize it at all.
Don't put anything in there.
I just want you to reserve that memory.
Don't use it for anything else,
don't put any strings in there.
Don't put any other variables in there.
Those are all reserved for me,
and give me back the address,
the first one that you reserved.
And what's the contents
of this memory garbage?
We have no idea.
It could be random stuff in memory.
Don't read this thing, or
you're gonna, I mean, you can, but
you're just gonna get memory garbage.
It's gonna be just like
that first exercise.
And we read off the end of Hello World.
That's what's gonna happen,
if you [LAUGH] printf this thing.
It's just whatever ones and
zeros happen to be at that address.
And what the read function does.
It says, okay, give me the file
descriptor that you already opened.
So this is gonna be our example dot txt.
And then it says, give me the memory
address that you want to read into.
So you may recall in our previous session,
we did this thing that seemed like a very
strange thing to do in most programming
languages where we took
this request string.
There was already some data there,
and then we just stomped all over it.
It's totally normal thing to do in C.
It is such a normal thing to do in C that
literally the way that you read files in C
is to do exactly that.
This is the official C standard library
approved way to read files is you
literally say, give me a memory address.
And it's, cool, I am going to stomp
all over those bytes that you gave me.
I'm going to just smash whatever's in
the file into this memory address and
whatever's there is just
getting overwritten.
And then the final argument is basically
like up to how many bytes do you
wanna do this?
I'm saying I wanna read 100 bytes.
So it's basically, give me the first
100 bytes of this file and
just smash into this buffer and
just like overwrite, 100 bytes here.
So as we've seen before,
you can guess what would happen.
What if I said 200 here?
It's, cool, it's just gonna keep
writing right off the end of that.
It's gonna override who knows
what memory in my function.
We might get a bus error,
we might get an abort.
Who knows?
Could be fun, don't recommend it.
You want your program to work, right?
You definitely wanna only give it the
address that actually has 100 bytes that
are safe to write into because
that's what Read's gonna do.
C might be the only language where
you call a function called read, and
the first thing it does is write.
The other thing that read does is because
it might not actually write 100 bytes,
like maybe I say,
write 100 bytes into this buffer.
Maybe it only, the file isn't that long.
The file is only like 30 bytes.
Read will return how many
bytes it actually wrote.
In other words,
like how long the file actually was.
So if you get back 100, that might mean
the file is 100 bytes long, but it also
might mean that it's more than 100 bytes
because it's, well, I wrote 100 bytes.
That's how many bytes I wrote
into the thing that you gave me.
The address that you gave me.
Maybe there's more left in the file,
I'm not telling you that.
I'm just telling you what I actually did.
Also, as with the open there is this
little fun special case of if the length
that it returns is negative one,
then that means there was an error.
And we're responsible for
handling read errors in that way.
So again, you just got to read the docs to
know to check for negative one, although,
honestly, you start to use
these things enough, and
it starts to become kind of a habit.
It's, all right,
what's the special magical value
that means an error occurred?
Let's check for that every time
we call one of these functions.
But you can forget it, and
if you do forget it, then you're just
going to end up passing this length of
negative one somewhere else, and
who knows what's gonna happen.
Okay, so, yeah, so if I want to print,
printf, here's how many bytes we actually
read, we can print that out, and
it's gonna say, here's the length.
And and that will tell us basically,
here's what actually happened.
If it was not quite 100
bytes that were read.